.\" Copyright (c) 2005 Samy Al Bahra.
.\" Copyright (c) 2003 Networks Associates Technology, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This software was developed for the FreeBSD Project by Chris Costello
.\" at Safeport Network Services and Network Associates Labs, the
.\" Security Research Division of Network Associates, Inc. under
.\" DARPA/SPAWAR contract N66001-01-C-8035 ("CBOSS"), as part of the
.\" DARPA CHATS research program.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHORS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD: src/share/man/man4/mac_portacl.4,v 1.5.2.2 2005/02/28 16:53:01 brueffer Exp $
.\"
.Dd December 9, 2004
.Dt MAC_suidacl 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mac_suidacl
.Nd "SUID/SGID access control policy"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
To compile the SUID/SGID access control policy into your kernel,
place the following lines in your kernel
configuration file:
.Bd -ragged -offset indent
.Cd "options MAC"
.Cd "options MAC_SUIDACL"
.Ed
.Pp
Alternately, to load the suid access control policy module at boot time,
place the following line in your kernel configuration file:
.Bd -ragged -offset indent
.Cd "options MAC"
.Ed
.Pp
and in
.Xr loader.conf 5 :
.Pp
.Dl "mac_suidacl_load=""YES"""
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
policy allows administrators to administratively limit access to the setxid()
family of systems calls and access to suid execution via the
.Xr sysctl 8
interface.
.Pp

.Ss Runtime Configuration
The following
.Xr sysctl 8
MIBs are available for fine-tuning the enforcement of this MAC policy.
All
.Xr sysctl 8
variables, except
.Va security.mac.suidacl.rules ,
can also be set as
.Xr loader 8
tunables in
.Xr loader.conf 5 .
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Va security.mac.suidacl.enabled
Enforce the
.Nm
policy.
(Default: 1).
.It Va security.mac.portacl.rules
The suid/sgid access control list is specified in the following format:
.Pp
.Sm off
.Bd -literal -offset indent
.Ar prison
.Li :
.Ar idtype
.Li :
.Ar id
.Li :
.Ar type
.Li ,
.Ar ...
.Ed
.Sm on
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width ".Ar prison"
.It Ar idtype
Describes the type of subject match to be performed.
Either
.Li uid
for user ID matching, or
.Li gid
for group ID matching.
.It Ar id
The user or group ID (depending on
.Ar idtype )
allowed to bind to the specified port.
.Bf -emphasis
NOTE: User and group names are not valid; only the actual ID numbers
may be used.
.Ef
.It Ar prison
Describes which prison this rule will be applicable to. The
.Li all
keyword may be used to specify all prisons and the
.Li none
keyword may be used to have the rule apply only to non-jailed processes. 
.It Ar type
Describes which suid/sgid action this entry applies to. This includes
.Li setuid
,
.Li seteuid
and the rest of the setxid family of systems calls, as well as
.Li execve
in order to control access to suid/sgid executables. The
.Li all
keyword may be used to disallow a user or group access to all userspace
methods of privilege changing.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mac 3 ,
.Xr setuid 2 ,
.Xr seteuid 2 ,
.Xr setgid 2 ,
.Xr setegid 2 ,
.Xr setreuid 2 ,
.Xr setregid 2 ,
.Xr setresuid 2 ,
.Xr setresgid 2 ,
.Xr mac_biba 4 ,
.Xr mac_bsdextended 4 ,
.Xr mac_ifoff 4 ,
.Xr mac_mls 4 ,
.Xr mac_none 4 ,
.Xr mac_partition 4 ,
.Xr mac_portacl 4 ,
.Xr mac_seeotheruids 4 ,
.Xr mac_test 4 ,
.Xr mac 9
.Sh HISTORY
MAC first appeared in
.Fx 5.0
and
.Nm
first appeared in
.Fx 6.0 .
.Sh AUTHORS
This software was contributed to the
.Fx
Project by NAI Labs, the Security Research Division of Network Associates
Inc.\& under DARPA/SPAWAR contract N66001-01-C-8035
.Pq Dq CBOSS ,
as part of the DARPA CHATS research program. It would be modified by Samy
Al Bahra to reach current functionality.
