.\" Copyright (c) 2003 Networks Associates Technology, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This software was developed for the FreeBSD Project by Chris Costello
.\" at Safeport Network Services and Network Associates Labs, the
.\" Security Research Division of Network Associates, Inc. under
.\" DARPA/SPAWAR contract N66001-01-C-8035 ("CBOSS"), as part of the
.\" DARPA CHATS research program.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHORS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd November 3, 2003
.Os
.Dt MAC_SUPPORT 4
.Sh NAME
.Nm mac_support
.Nd Mandatory Access Control: Support Statement
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The TrustedBSD MAC Framework provides support for augmented system
access control policies, composition of multiple policies at runtime,
as well as infrastructure for common policies, such as security label
infrastructure.
MAC support has been developed and tested in combination with specific
FreeBSD kernel and userspace services; as support for MAC requires
specific adaptation of security-relevant features, FreeBSD or third-party
components, correct and secure deployment of MAC support requires
careful configuration to avoid unsupported components.
This document identifies FreeBSD kernel and userspace components that
are (and are not) supported with MAC.
Due to limitations in the kernel module build infrastructure in FreeBSD,
it is necessary to link most services directly into the kernel rather
than use modules.
.Sh SUPPORTED FEATURES
.Ss Schedulers
	SCHED_4BSD
	SCHED_ULE
.Ss File Systems (multilabel)
	FFS
	SOFTUPDATES
	UFS_ACL
	UFS_DIRHASH
.Ss File Systems (singlelabel)
	CD9660
	MSDOSFS
	NFSCLIENT
	NFS_ROOT
	PROCFS
	PSEUDOFS
.Ss Process Facilities
	KTRACE
	_KPOSIX_PRIORITY_SCHEDULING
.Ss Inter-Process Communication
	SYSVSHM
	SYSVMSG
	SYSVSEM
.Ss Compatibility and Emulation
	COMPAT_43
	COMPAT_FREEBSD4
	COMPAT_LINUX
.Ss Network Protocol Stacks
	INET
.Ss Miscellaneous
	KBD_INSTALL_CDEV
	Random pseudo-device
	Loop-back network interface
	Pseudo-terminals (PTY)
	Memory disks (MD)
	Berkeley packet filter (BPF)
.Ss Device Drivers
	SMP
	All 802.1 ethernet devices
	802.11 wireless devices
	ISA, EISA, and PCI busses
	PCCard and Cardbus buses
	SCSI controllers and devices
	ATA controllers and devices
	Floppy disk controllers and devices
	System console, PS/2 keyboard and mouse, AGP
	Advanced power management (APM)
	Advanced Configuration and Power Management (ACPI)
	USB controllers and devices
	Firewire controllers and devices
	Serial ports
.Sh UNSUPPORTED FEATURES
This section identifies kernel and userspace features of FreeBSD that
are known to be partially or completely incompatible with MAC support.
Failures may include uncontrolled operations or information flow,
as well as potential kernel panics due to uninitialized label data.
This list is not intended to be all-encompassing, and if a feature is
not explicitly listed in the explicit support list, it should be
considered unsupported.
.Ss Network Protocol Stacks
	INET6
.Ss File Systems
	HPFS (ioctl)
	LINPROCFS (insufficient review)
	NFSSERVER (no enforcement)
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mac 3 ,
.Xr mac 4 ,
.Xr mac_biba 4 ,
.Xr mac_bsdextended 4 ,
.Xr mac_ifoff 4 ,
.Xr mac_lomac 4 ,
.Xr mac_mls 4 ,
.Xr mac_none 4 ,
.Xr mac_partition 4 ,
.Xr mac_portacl 4 ,
.Xr mac_seeotheruids 4 ,
.Xr mac_test 4 ,
.Xr login.conf 5 ,
.Xr maclabel 7 ,
.Xr getfmac 8 ,
.Xr getpmac 8 ,
.Xr setfmac 8 ,
.Xr setpmac 8 ,
.Xr mac 9
.Rs
.%B "The FreeBSD Handbook"
.%T "Mandatory Access Control"
.%O http://www.FreeBSD.org/doc/en_US.ISO8859-1/books/handbook/mac.html
.Re
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
implementation first appeared in
.Fx 5.0
and was developed by the
.Tn TrustedBSD
Project.
.Sh AUTHORS
This software was contributed to the
.Fx
Project by Network Associates Labs,
the Security Research Division of Network Associates
Inc. under DARPA/SPAWAR contract N66001-01-C-8035
.Pq Dq CBOSS ,
as part of the DARPA CHATS research program.
.Sh BUGS
See
.Xr mac 9
concerning appropriateness for production use.
The
.Tn TrustedBSD
MAC Framework is considered experimental in
.Fx .
.Pp
While the MAC Framework design is intended to support the containment of
the root user, not all attack channels are currently protected by entry
point checks.
As such, MAC Framework policies should not be relied on, in isolation,
to protect against a malicious privileged user.
