.\"- Copyright (c) 2005 Tom Rhodes
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd May 21, 2005
.Os
.Dt MAC_CHKEXEC 4
.Sh NAME
.Nm mac_chkexec
.Nd "file system trusted executable policy"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
To compile the trusted exec policy into your kernel,
place the following lines in your kernel configuration file:
.Bd -ragged -offset indent
.Cd "options MAC"
.Cd "options MAC_CHKEXEC"
.Ed
.Pp
Alternately, to load the trusted exec policy module at boot time,
place the following line in your kernel configuration file:
.Bd -ragged -offset indent
.Cd "options MAC"
.Ed
.Pp
and in
.Xr loader.conf 5 :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
mac_chkexec_load="YES"
.Ed
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
security policy module provides the system administrator with a
mechanism similar to host based intrusion detection systems.
A checksum is created for each system object and stored
in the extended attributes area of the file system.
System objects which fail checksum matching will have their
execution blocked.
Additionally, system objects may require the hash of
another object to pass inspection before execution.
This is considered the dependency chain.
.Pp
By default, all generated hashes are
.Tn SHA1
based.
This may change in the future.
To get or set hash information, an administrator would use
the
.Xr getfhash 8
and
.Xr setfhash 8
utilities.
.Sh IMPLEMENTATION NOTES
The
.Nm
policy works similar to host based intrusion detection
mechanisms with the added bonus of blocking execution
of system objects.
.Pp
.Ss Sysctls
The following sysctls may be used to tweak the behavior of
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Va security.mac.chkexec.enable
Set to zero or one to toggle the policy off or on.
.It Va security.mac.chkexec.enforce
Toggle the enforcement of the security policy.
While the policy is loaded but
not enforced, the system is in learning mode.
This means that each time an object is executed,
the system calculates and stores the checksums for that object.
This allows system administrators to create their
.Dq baseline database
of trusted binaries simply by letting the system run in regular operation.
.It Va security.mac.chkexec.cache.objmax
Adjust the cache size.
This should be increased as more system objects
are added to the system.
Note that this value should be similar to
.Dq 1024
during the
.Fx
buildworld process.
.It Va security.mac.chkexec.algo
Specify which hashing algorithm to use.
Currently MD5 and SHA1 are supported.
By default SHA1 is used.
.It Va security.mac.chkexec.cache.enable
Enable or disable the use of the object cache.
Disabling the cache results
in system execution and run-time linking performance being degraded.
.It Va security.mac.chkexec.ignore_untagged
Specify whether or not un-registered binaries should be exempt.
This allows users to execute newly created binaries.
It is highly recommended that this option
.Em not
be enabled.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mac 4 ,
.Xr mac_biba 4 ,
.Xr mac_bsdextended 4 ,
.Xr mac_ifoff 4 ,
.Xr mac_lomac 4 ,
.Xr mac_mls 4 ,
.Xr mac_none 4 ,
.Xr mac_partition 4 ,
.Xr mac_portacl 4 ,
.Xr mac_seeotheruids 4 ,
.Xr mac_test 4 ,
.Xr getfhash 8 ,
.Xr setfhash 8
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm
security policy was written by
.An Christian S.J. Peron Aq csjp@FreeBSD.org .
This manual page was written by
.An Tom Rhodes Aq trhodes@FreeBSD.org .
.Sh BUGS
Currently the
.Nm
module will not break circular dependencies for executable objects.
