.\"-
.\" Copyright (c) 2005 SPARTA, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" SEBSD was initially developed by McAfee Research under DARPA/SPAWAR
.\" contract N66001-01-C-8035 ("CBOSS"), as part of the DARPA CHATS
.\" research program.
.\"
.\" This software was developed by SPARTA ISSO under SPAWAR contract 
.\" N66001-04-C-6019 ("SEFOS").
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"/
.Dd July 10, 2005
.Os
.Dt SEBSD 4
.Sh NAME
.Nm sebsd
.Nd "SEBSD - FLASK/Type Enforcement Security Module"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
To compile SEBSD into your kernel, place the following lines in your kernel
configuration file:
.Bd -ragged -offset indent
.Cd "options MAC"
.Cd "options SEBSD"
.Ed
.Pp
Alternately, to load the Biba module at boot time, place the following line
in your kernel configuration file:
.Bd -ragged -offset indent
.Cd "options MAC"
.Ed
.Pp
and in
.Xr loader.conf 5 :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
sebsd_load="YES"
.Ed
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
policy module provides an implementation of NSA's FLASK security
architecture and the Type Enforcement policy environment as a TrustedBSD MAC
Framework policy module.
Type Enforcement allows the broad- or fine-grained control of processes and
system objects via a policy language, assigning domains to subjects, types
to objects, and describing the permitted accesses of domains on types.
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mac 4 ,
.Xr maclabel 7 ,
.Xr mac 9
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
policy module was developed for the
.Tn TrustedBSD
Project, and is derived from NSA's SELinux distribution of FLASK and Type
Enforcement.
.Sh AUTHORS
In addition to the numerous contributors to NSA's SELinux, the port and
adaptation of FLASK/TE to
.Fx
was contributed by McAfee Research under DARPA/SPAWAR contract
N66001-01-C-8035
.Pa Dq CBOSS
as part of the DARPA CHATS research program, and further enhanced and
developed by SPARTA, Inc under SPAWAR ccontract N66001-04-C-6019
.Pa Dq SEFOS .
